i have a confession to make
i put out a lot of video content talking
about the importance of public speaking
and why you should really practice it
and even consider joining a club like
toastmasters so that you get in regular
repetitions and routines and that public
speaking becomes increasingly familiar
but for all of my talk about how
important toastmasters is i personally
haven't been to a meeting for two months
and earlier this year there was a
stretch of about a month and a half
where i didn't attend a meeting and then
i finally came back to a meeting and
that that experience i had is the reason
for this video hey everyone if this is
your first time landing on one of my
videos make sure you subscribe and turn
on notifications my name is wade
patterson and i am passionate about
impactful communication and in this
video i'm talking about the importance
of practicing public speaking it's funny
some people who i have talked to in the
past when i tell them about toastmasters
they say oh yeah i took toastmasters a
few years ago i did toastmasters as if
it's something that they're now finished
with in my mind this explanation is
almost like somebody saying oh i don't
work out anymore i did that five years
ago i used to go to the gym for a couple
months therefore i've done it
it's a ridiculous thing to say we all
know that working out is great but you
only have benefit from it from a for a
short amount of time if you work out or
if you worked out two years ago that
probably has no effect on your mental or
your physical shape today rather with
working out we know that it needs to be
habitual we need to go on a regular
basis to really gain the full benefits
of exercise the same thing goes for
public speaking you could have taken
toastmasters years ago for even a full
year and sure you would have learned
some key concepts that hopefully stuck
with you but at the end of the day
you need to continue practicing public
speaking because it's just like a muscle
that you work out if you neglect it for
too long you're going to notice that
that muscle or that skill of public
speaking starts to fade away or become
less effective in my personal experience
earlier this year when i missed about a
month and a half of toastmasters
meetings when i returned i sure noticed
a difference first off my heart was
racing right away as soon as i came in
the room because i knew i would have to
speak at some point in the meeting even
though i hadn't signed up for a role i
knew that i was going to be called on
when it came to table topics and that
was the case they called my name i came
in front of the room i began to speak
and i did a horrible job i'll be honest
it was not good because i was so nervous
and i hadn't gotten into the routine it
had been a month and a half and some of
those skills had worn away
i got through to the green light which
basically means in table topics at least
one minute of speaking but i was
fumbling my way through and at the end
of the meeting some of my fellow members
came up and talked to me and they said
wade
you just weren't yourself today
well that is because i hadn't been
practicing on a regular basis i
mentioned at the start of this video i'm
currently in a two-month drought of not
going to toastmasters meetings therefore
i'm really going to challenge myself and
the rest of this year which is 2022
to
attend as many meetings as i can because
i know how important it is and it's
really the foundation of this youtube
channel talking about toastmasters tips
and skills
i have no excuse other than life got
busy i got married this year there was
all sorts of things going on but i know
how important toastmasters is and
practicing public speaking beyond my own
personal experience i wanted to give a
couple of tips through this video of how
you can practice public speaking
especially if attending toastmasters
isn't an option maybe you have a
toastmasters club in your community that
meets every tuesday evening but you have
a commitment tuesday evenings that you
can't make well the first option if you
want to stay within the toastmasters
realm is to do some research on other
clubs that may have virtual meetings
covid was this crazy time in history but
one of the things that it really pushed
forward was virtual meetings and the
ability to adapt to technology we saw
all sorts of clubs either fully going
virtual or doing hybrid meetings where
they meet in person but still have a
camera recording it for those who are
more comfortable staying at home and who
would want to participate in various
roles via zoom maybe your community
doesn't have a toastmasters club that
meets on a day or time that works for
you perhaps you can check out another
club in a different community that has
zoom meetings and you can join those and
maybe even consider becoming a virtual
member of that toastmasters club for
others where toastmasters simply isn't
an option there are a couple other
things you can do to practice public
speaking one is to record yourself
pull out your iphone or your android hit
that record button and speak in front of
it just like i'm doing right now to the
camera prepare your speech say it fully
and then watch it back you may be
surprised by how many what we call
crutch words you use which are ah or um
things that are used in between
sentences
those are things you want to eliminate
as a public speaker because it's
distracting to the audience you may not
even know you're saying those words but
by watching back your recording you may
identify some of those words that you
say often you may also identify
fidgeting or various things you do with
your body it's funny because sometimes
we don't have a clue that we're doing
certain things
for example one gentleman in our
toastmasters club always would grab a
chair or lean on to something when he
would speak and he had no idea that he
was even doing this until a few
toastmasters during the evaluation
portion pointed this out to him and
suggested hey take your hand off that
chair stand up good posture hands to
your side and deliver your speech
once he understood and could acknowledge
what he was doing
all of his speeches since have been more
powerful more commanding because he
understands to look out for that
tendency he was previously doing another
way you can practice is by asking a
friend or a family member to watch you
give a speech and give their feedback
now keep in mind if it's a good friend
or family member they may not want to
give you constructive criticism they may
just say oh it's amazing so you want to
pick somebody who is actually going to
give you real feedback so that you can
improve upon your speaking skills a
final tip i'll give is to always have a
speech or an idea for a speech in your
back pocket there's all of these
opportunities in life where we may have
a chance to give a public speech such as
a wedding that is probably one of the
most common opportunities we get to give
a speech
being in the wedding party maybe you're
the parents of the bride in the groom
maybe you're the bride or the groom
whatever that situation there may be a
public speaking opportunity another
common instance is through work or
through your job maybe you have to
deliver a presentation one tip that is
something i try to always do is be
thinking about the next speech
that may sound weird if you don't have
anything any event coming up where you
may have to give a speech but always
have an idea in your head maybe you have
a friend
who is close to getting married think in
the back of your mind hey maybe there's
a reasonable chance he or she will ask
me to give a speech at their wedding i'm
going to start thinking now about what
my future speech is going to be
same thing can go for work you can start
thinking in advance
maybe about a presentation you do about
how your company can be more innovative
an idea you have
always have a speech in your back pocket
that you're thinking about this allows
you to always have something that you
can use to practice with if you have
nothing in life that you can think of as
an example then challenge yourself what
is your hobby or your interest what is
something that you're passionate about
even if you have no opportunity to give
that speech start building that speech
now so that if there is ever an
opportunity you will be
not only coherent but you will be
polished you will be able to deliver
that speech with such conviction because
you have been working on it you've been
practicing on it and it also gives you a
piece of content that you can constantly
work on i know this video has been a
little different than my others where
it's typically three or five or seven
tips specifically how to achieve a
certain thing while public speaking this
one the whole tip is the reminder and
the importance to practice i can't
stress this enough even people who are
very good very polished public speakers
who talk about the fact that they wing
it
i would bet you that they practice more
than they lead you to believe or more
than you maybe would imagine people who
practice speaking can make it look
effortless can make it look like it's
something they just have natural talent
for but the truth is many of those
individuals have put in the time they've
put in the effort
sure there are the unicorns who were
born to be public speakers and maybe
don't have to put a lot of practice
behind it but for the rest of us me
included i know that you have to put in
time you have to put in practice and the
more you do so the more effective and
impactful of a public speaker you will
be i hope this video was a great
reminder to you to practice public
speaking i'd love if you checked out
some of my other youtube videos i talk
about the importance of body language i
break down all sorts of specific
toastmasters roles and how to take those
on
take a minute scroll through my video
see if there's something that could help
you out otherwise thank you so much for
taking the time to watch this video and
i'll catch you on the next one